I'd like to share with you a process for
scoping projects,
that hope will be valuable for
how you decide what to work on.
When I'm speaking with a company for
the first time about their AI projects,
this is the process that I use as well.
Let's dive in,
when brainstorming prices work on.
The first thing I do is usually get
together with a business or private owner.
Often not an Ai person, but
someone that understands the business and
application and to brainstorm with them.
What are their business or
application problems?
And at this stage I'm trying to identify
a business problem, not an Ai problem.
So if I'm speaking with
Nikon retail business,
like the example from the previous video.
I might ask, what are the top few things,
top three things you wish were working
better, and
maybe they'll share business problems.
Like they like to increase conversions
number of people that go to the website
and convert to a sale or reduce inventory.
So you don't need as much stuff
sitting around in the warehouse, or
increased margin,
increase the profit per item sold.
At this point in the process,
I'm not trying to identify an AI problem.
In fact, I often tell my partners I don't
want to hear about your AI problems.
I want to hear about your
business problems and
then it's my job to work with you
to see if there is an Ai solution.
And sometimes there isn't and
that's fine too.
Feel free to use the exact same words as
well when brainstorming projects with your
non AI partners.
If you want having identified
a few business problems like
the three examples on the right.
Only then do I see or start to brainstorm
if there are possible AI solutions,
not all problems can be solved by AI and
that's okay.
But hopefully we'll come
up with some ideas for
using machine learning algorithms,
to address some of the business problems.
I find it is hopeful for
this process to separate out
the identification of the problem,
from the identification of
the solution as engineers.
We are pretty good at coming up with
solutions, but having a clear articulation
of what is the problem first often
helps us come up with better solutions.
This type of separation between
problem and solution is
something you might hear about in
the writings on design thinking as well.
After brainstorming a variety
of different solutions,
I would then assess the feasibility and
the value of these different solutions.
Sometimes you hear me use the word
diligence, to refer to this phrase.
Diligence is a term that actually
comes from the legal field, but
it basically means
double-checking if an AI solution
really is technically feasible and
valuable.
Double-checking something that you're
hoping, it's true really is true,
after validating technical feasibility and
value or ROI.
Return on investment if you can project
if it still looks promising right,
if it still looks promising.
We then flesh out the milestones for the
project and finally budget for resources.
Let's take a deeper look at this
process of identifying problems,
and solutions and
we'll use these three examples from Nikon.
So the first one increased conversion,
if the business wants
to increase conversions, you may
have different ideas are doing that.
For example, you may want to improve
the quality of the website search results.
So people find more relevant
products when they search.
Or you might decide to try to offer
a better product recommendations based on
their purchase history.
It is quite common that one problem may
lead to multiple ideas for solutions.
And you may be able to bring
some other ideas as well,
such as maybe a redesign of how
products are displayed on the page.
Or you may find interesting ways to
surface the most relevant product reviews,
to help users understand the product and
does hopefully purchase it.
So there can be many ways
to increase conversions.
Take the next problem from the previous
slide of reducing inventory.
Maybe, you can imagine
a demand prediction project to
better estimate how many
people buy something from you.
So you don't purchase too many or
too few, and
have more accurate inventory
in your warehouses.
Or you may decide to come up with
a marketing campaign to drive sales for
specifically the products
that you bought too many of.
So as to steer more purchases of
stuff sitting in your warehouse.
And that could also reduce inventory,
and there could be many other ideas for
solutions or for
the problem of increasing margin.
You may come up with some ways to use
machine learning to optimize what to sell.
What is worth selling and
what is not worth selling.
And Nikon retail, sometimes this is called
merchandising, just deciding what to sell.
Or you can recommend bundles
where if someone buys a camera.
Maybe you can recommend to them
a protective camera case and
these bundles can also increase margin.
The problem identification is
a step of thinking through
whether the things you want to achieve.
And solution identification is
a process of thinking through
how to achieve those objectives.
One thing I still see too many
teams do today is jump into
the first project that they're
excited about in my experience.
If you have deep domain knowledge
about an application or
industry may be the first thing your
gut gets excited about could be okay.
But even then I find it worthwhile
to first engage in divergent
thinking where you brainstorm
a lot of possibilities.
To be followed by conversion thinking
where you then narrow it down to one or
a small handful of the most
promising projects to focus on.
One thing I hope you might avoid is
working really hard on the project and
creating a certain amount of monetary or
social value.
If for the same amount of work, there's
a different project that could have
created 10 times more, monitoring or
social or other positive types of value.
And I think this type of scoping
process will help you to do that.